this nuts called the locked half-blood
dot I don't know why it's called a
locked I don't know why it's called a
half-blood maybe it's because the line
and he goes through the eye of the hook
once we begin by threading the eye of
the hook and wrapping the tag around the
main line or the standing part four
times then we pass the tag back through
the first loop which we've made now I
could pull that knot tight and it would
be a half-blood not an unlocked
half-blood that's what a lot of anglers
use unfortunately what happens if you're
using a new fishing line like this is
and new hooks that knot can slip undone
I'm just going to exert a little bit of
pressure on there and we'll just see
what happens it's not moving yet oh yes
there it goes
yes and if this angler has a trophy fish
all you'd be left with is that little
squiggly bit on the end and I try a few
fish to show for it so what we're going
to do we're going to tie a locked
half-blood which is going to prevent
that happening once again we thread the
eye of the hook wrap the tag around the
main line do that four times we pass the
tag back up through the first wrap we
made catch that between thumb and middle
finger of the left hand and we begin to
close up the knot until the transfer
sloop appears clearly at the top of the
knot then we take the tag push it
through the loop to lock the knot what
it does actually is add another friction
component to the knot and that causes
our not to lock just a little bit of
pressure on the tag to take that slack
out pull it up tight and there's
absolutely
no way that that knot is going to slip
and there we are that's the locked half
blood knot